architecture/containerstats-pipeline.md, before:

# ContainerStats Pipeline

The ContainerStats pipeline builds statistical representations of individual containers' resource usage over time. The pipeline is part of the `cost-model` container.

## Helm configuration

The ContainerStats pipeline is enabled by default. To disable it, set the following flag to `false`:

```yaml
kubecostModel:
  containerStatsEnabled: false
```

Ensure you allow roughly two hours for the pipeline to run before issuing a query which leverages this pipeline.

## Behavior

The pipeline builds 24 hour "windows" of data. It only builds complete windows, e.g. if now is `2003-08-23T08:30:00Z`, the pipeline will only build up to the window from `2003-08-22T00:00:00Z` to `2003-08-23T00:00:00Z`.

The pipeline will return an error response if a requested time range of data contains any windows (24 hour chunks) are _expected_ (should be in the store) but not _available_ (the pipeline has not yet built and loaded a complete set of data into the store).

## Usage in Kubecost APIs

### Request right-sizing recommendation (v2)

The primary user of ContainerStats pipeline data is the [request right-sizing recommendation API (v2)](/apis/savings-apis/api-request-right-sizing-v2.md). ContainerStats data is used for quantile-based recommendations.

### Debugging

There is an API for introspecting pipeline data available at `/model/containerstats/quantiles`. It does not have a stable schema and is not supported as an official product feature. It is only intended for limited debugging.

## Logs

All ContainerStats-related log messages should contain `ContainerStats` or `ContainerStatsSet`. The pipeline logs a few things at `INFO` level to show that the pipeline is running successfully. Much greater detail is available at the `DEBUG` level. See [the official instructions](https://github.com/kubecost/cost-analyzer-helm-chart#adjusting-log-output) to learn how to change the log level.

## Configuration

The ContainerStats pipeline's behavior is controller by a few different environment variables.

| Environment variable                        | Helm chart value                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CONTAINER_STATS_ENABLED`                   | `kubecostModel.containerStatsEnabled`             | Enables the pipeline.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Prometheus/Thanos configuration             |                                                   | The pipeline inherits most of the existing Prometheus/Thanos configuration because it leverages the same client(s) used by the Asset and Allocation pipelines. Specific deviations will be mentioned.                                                                                          |
| `ETL_MAX_PROMETHEUS_QUERY_DURATION_MINUTES` | `kubecostModel.maxPrometheusQueryDurationMinutes` | The pipeline will obey this, but may fail to initialize if this is set below the minimum value supported by the pipeline (10 minutes).                                                                                                                                                         |
| "Storage" configuration                      |                                                   | The pipeline inherits most of the existing "store" configuration used by other pipelines like Asset and Allocation. This includes, but is not limited to: store duration, store type (file, federated, etc.), leader election, storage pathing, storage directory, bucket storage, and backup. |

Commit message:

Remove references to ContainerStats pipeline (#1183)

architecture/containerstats-pipeline.md, after:

# ContainerStats Pipeline

> [!CAUTION]
> The ContainerStats pipeline is now removed. This page should no longer be consulted. Kubecost APIs no longer use this pipeline's data.

The ContainerStats pipeline builds statistical representations of individual containers' resource usage over time. The pipeline is part of the `cost-model` container.

## Helm configuration

The ContainerStats pipeline is enabled by default. To disable it, set the following flag to `false`:

```yaml
kubecostModel:
  containerStatsEnabled: false
```

Ensure you allow roughly two hours for the pipeline to run before issuing a query which leverages this pipeline.

## Behavior

The pipeline builds 24 hour "windows" of data. It only builds complete windows, e.g. if now is `2003-08-23T08:30:00Z`, the pipeline will only build up to the window from `2003-08-22T00:00:00Z` to `2003-08-23T00:00:00Z`.

The pipeline will return an error response if a requested time range of data contains any windows (24 hour chunks) are _expected_ (should be in the store) but not _available_ (the pipeline has not yet built and loaded a complete set of data into the store).

## Usage in Kubecost APIs

### Request right-sizing recommendation (v2)

The primary user of ContainerStats pipeline data is the [request right-sizing recommendation API (v2)](/apis/savings-apis/api-request-right-sizing-v2.md). ContainerStats data is used for quantile-based recommendations.

### Debugging

There is an API for introspecting pipeline data available at `/model/containerstats/quantiles`. It does not have a stable schema and is not supported as an official product feature. It is only intended for limited debugging.

## Logs

All ContainerStats-related log messages should contain `ContainerStats` or `ContainerStatsSet`. The pipeline logs a few things at `INFO` level to show that the pipeline is running successfully. Much greater detail is available at the `DEBUG` level. See [the official instructions](https://github.com/kubecost/cost-analyzer-helm-chart#adjusting-log-output) to learn how to change the log level.

## Configuration

The ContainerStats pipeline's behavior is controller by a few different environment variables.

| Environment variable                        | Helm chart value                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CONTAINER_STATS_ENABLED`                   | `kubecostModel.containerStatsEnabled`             | Enables the pipeline.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| Prometheus/Thanos configuration             |                                                   | The pipeline inherits most of the existing Prometheus/Thanos configuration because it leverages the same client(s) used by the Asset and Allocation pipelines. Specific deviations will be mentioned.                                                                                          |
| `ETL_MAX_PROMETHEUS_QUERY_DURATION_MINUTES` | `kubecostModel.maxPrometheusQueryDurationMinutes` | The pipeline will obey this, but may fail to initialize if this is set below the minimum value supported by the pipeline (10 minutes).                                                                                                                                                         |
| "Storage" configuration                      |                                                   | The pipeline inherits most of the existing "store" configuration used by other pipelines like Asset and Allocation. This includes, but is not limited to: store duration, store type (file, federated, etc.), leader election, storage pathing, storage directory, bucket storage, and backup. |
